{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh14000\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 accel\
===\
\
as s = ut +(at^2)/2\
\
We need to know u ( initial velocity) t time a acceleration\
that gives us S displacement, but we also need to know initial value. We also need to say whether s is displacement from max or from min. That\'92s separate from whether a is negative\
\
probably it\'92s OK to use omin as start pos and omax as some kind of output scaling. time period would indicate u in some way. Secondary time could iindicate acceleration. So still enough data. maybe. what if we decide to base u on input velocity? wouldn\'92t that mean the normal imin, imax, omin, imax all to handle u? then where would \
\
what next? \
Dirty flag?\
Time Raster?\
Mod wheel, pitch bend, sustain pedal support?\
Something other than nflat for image selection?\
Polyphonic?\
Smear?\
\
Let\'92s go:\
\
Dirty\
Accel\
Note-based raster -a simple mod to sweep\
Bar-based raster\
Advanced image selection \
\
What should cause dirty?\
\
Start of a recording\
Clearing a channel\
Assigning a voice to a channel/layer\
Creating a new voice\
Editing a voice\
Importing a voice\
Importing Audio\
Importing midi\
\
Is there a minimum of stuff that can be saved? if you just import audio and save, does that load OK?\
\
There\'92s a method inside amenicmain called setclean. Any routine that uses that would have to be passed the amenicmain instance. But that would be a classic case of objectizing a natural global. We could either make the flag and routine external to amenicmain or, probably more sensibly make the only instance of amenicmain (main) a global and access it directly. NAH, just use signals\
\
Is it currently a global, or is its scope onty the block at the end??\
\
Need a heirarchy of dirty flags and setcleans. For example, a dirty path will make a dirty voice, but only if that voice is saved, does the project become dirty\
\
Accel sort of kind of working.\
\
Bugs \
Clearing channel sometimes doesn\'92t. They clear OK if the proj hasn\'92t been played since loading, but not if it has been played or recorded. Implies to me that the action of playing causes a copy to be made and that immutable copy is what is playing, not the performance that is being edited.\
\
seems to be only where the performance was loaded with the project\
-more subtle, it seems to be if performance (even empty) was instantiated at load time rather than created with a \'91from scratch\'92 project\
-after some changes to do with reload that don\'92t seem related, it\'92s now not even clearing the image\
- the sequence\
\'97load proj with recorded track on chan 0\
\'97clear chan 0\
\'97inspect again - still looks clear\
\'97save proj \
\'97 exit amenic \
\'97 reload proj -shows recorded track.\
\'97 what is generating timelines -what is generating the save data - how does iit differ?\
\
This sounds an easier one to track down. If you load a proj with perf info, clear the perf info and save the proj, on reload, it\'92s still there. The .apf file is getting rewritten, but, weirdly, it\'92s slightly smaller, like 27 bytes smaller.\
\
The reason for failure to delete is because of the creation of multiple forchan0 tracks.\
\
Just a problem with the delete strategy by the look of it\
\
Features\
\
Need better descriptions/explanations around UI for vaccel, preferably the ability to express scaling factors as pixels/s and pixels/s/s \
Need control of both initial absolute value as well as initial velocity\
Better expression of accel/decel \
Positioning on centre of image rather than top left -maybe ability to identify \'91locating point\'92\
Maybe control vbox3 sizing in veditd rather better\
\
Bug\
\
Occasionally (I don\'92t know what the occasion is) the playback timing goes screwy \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}